content/posts/shipuary-2025.md, before:

---
title: "Shipuary 2025"
date: "2025-01-07"
categories: ["dkBuilds", "Product"]
preview: "shipping 3 new products by the end of february"
---

I’m either late to shipmas or early to the shipuary trend. Yes, shipuary, a new thing I just made up[^1].

The **objective** is simple: ship 3 products by the end of the month of January.

The **purpose** is simple: to build and ship things fast → to get real feedback fast.

The **goal** is a combination of the following:

- turn my growing list of ideas into real products through more pressured action
- progress towards my 2025 goal of generating $1000 in revenue
- build products that make many people smile

The problem I have is that I love talking about ideas, products, businesses and don’t do enough to make them real. The steps I made in 2024 is concrete progress to solving that problem. But I know I can do more. 

I loved tuning into [12 Days of OpenAI](https://openai.com/12-days/) (a play on shipmas), so why not have a little fun of my own.

**Here are the rules**:

1. three new products must be in a production environment by 11:59PM CST on January 31st, 2025
2. each product must meet a single minimum requirement to be considered ‘done’

**The single requirements are**:

1. **Grade Final Boss**
    1. User can sign in to view their saved final grade calculation
2. **Chicago Transit Tracker**
    1. User can see train arrival times at all CTA train stops
3. **Garpple**
    1. User can view weekly minutes spent in zone 2 for the past 3 months

I’ll learn a lot between now and the end of the month. In the days spent passively thinking[^2] about this challenge, I came up with some thoughts on...

1. **how does one pick an idea?**
    - Pick something you would love to sell. Like the thought of you going around and telling everyone about the product is exciting, feels natural. You can believe in an idea, but not want to make the product. (e.g. I think [upwardly](http://www.wakeupwardly.com) would do a lot of good, has good intentions, and social accountability in consumer apps make things *work* and I believe in in the benefits of getting up early, but I wouldn’t want to sell anyone on it. Versus a clean, modern, minimalist, bad-ass chicago transit tracker app? hell yeah.
2. **what will help me succeed?**
    - Getting narrow, staying narrow
    - Defining a single ‘done’ requirement
3. **how will i do it?**
    - Intuition building. I have good intuition and I am a user of all my potential ideas. Just build it. Don’t have time to fully research everything[^3] anyways. I can research after (i.e. get real user feedback aka the better research)
4. **what will the products look like?**
    - Black and white everything. Color for results/outcomes or key actions only.
    - Few buttons. I’m smart enough to know what matters).
5. **what are some product principles I want to keep in mind - for shipuary and beyond?**
    
    3 Product Principles[^4] of dkBuilds
    
    1. It works as you expect it to
        1. functional and delivers on the promise being sold
    2. It’s beautiful
        1. beauty in simplicity
    3. It’s fun
        1. you want to use it and tell others about it
6. **how will I sell the products?**
    - Only sell 1 thing. or else you divide customers attention and risk confusing them.
    - The ad must speak for itself. You can’t sit there and explain the product to the customer.
7. **and addressing concerns that I’m wasting my time?**
    - No one wants to waste time building something that isn’t valuable. So you can either:
        
        (1) get feedback on the idea (no product built)
        
        (2) get feedback on the actual product
        and if you’re gonna do (2), you must move fast. Thats the purpose of shipuary.
        

Every art form has tension before creation. Fuck it.

See ya Feb 1 ✌️


[^1]: is any thought really new? if you look up shipuary, im sure someone has probably already done it before. ill stay ignorant here.

[^2]: is it really passive if it’s always on the back burner? not sure. but i am sure that having ideas “on the back burner” or “back off the mind” is where a lot of the real magic happens.

[^3]: and talk myself out of it (because X is already doing something similar)

[^4]: this feeds into this ongoing process of building my brand. a brand is a promise. i want to promise all three of those things in any work that i do. the promise for the things that come out of shipuary: simple, beautiful products people will want to share.

Commit message:

edit for link to tweet

content/posts/shipuary-2025.md, after:

---
title: "Shipuary 2025"
date: "2025-01-07"
categories: ["dkBuilds", "Product"]
preview: "shipping 3 new products by the end of february"
---

I’m either late to shipmas or early to the shipuary trend. Yes, shipuary, a new thing I just made up[^1].

The **objective** is simple: ship 3 products by the end of the month of January.

The **purpose** is simple: to build and ship things fast → to get real feedback fast.

The **goal** is a combination of the following:

- turn my growing list of ideas into real products through more pressured action
- progress towards my 2025 goal of generating $1000 in revenue
- build products that make many people smile

The problem I have is that I love talking about ideas, products, businesses and don’t do enough to make them real. The steps I made in 2024 is concrete progress to solving that problem. But I know I can do more. 

I loved tuning into [12 Days of OpenAI](https://openai.com/12-days/) (a play on shipmas), so why not have a little fun of my own.

**Here are the rules**:

1. three new products must be in a production environment by 11:59PM CST on January 31st, 2025
2. each product must meet a single minimum requirement to be considered ‘done’

**The single requirements are**:

1. **Grade Final Boss**
    1. User can sign in to view their saved final grade calculation
2. **Chicago Transit Tracker**
    1. User can see train arrival times at all CTA train stops
3. **Garpple**
    1. User can view weekly minutes spent in zone 2 for the past 3 months

I’ll learn a lot between now and the end of the month. In the days spent passively thinking[^2] about this challenge, I came up with some thoughts on...

1. **how does one pick an idea?**
    - Pick something you would love to sell. Like the thought of you going around and telling everyone about the product is exciting, feels natural. You can believe in an idea, but not want to make the product. (e.g. I think [upwardly](http://www.wakeupwardly.com) would do a lot of good, has good intentions, and social accountability in consumer apps make things *work* and I believe in in the benefits of getting up early, but I wouldn’t want to sell anyone on it. Versus a clean, modern, minimalist, bad-ass chicago transit tracker app? hell yeah.
2. **what will help me succeed?**
    - Getting narrow, staying narrow
    - Defining a single ‘done’ requirement
3. **how will i do it?**
    - Intuition building. I have good intuition and I am a user of all my potential ideas. Just build it. Don’t have time to fully research everything[^3] anyways. I can research after (i.e. get real user feedback aka the better research[^5])
4. **what will the products look like?**
    - Black and white everything. Color for results/outcomes or key actions only.
    - Few buttons. I’m smart enough to know what matters.
5. **what are some product principles I want to keep in mind - for shipuary and beyond?**
    
    3 Product Principles[^4] of dkBuilds
    
    1. It works as you expect it to
        1. functional and delivers on the promise being sold
    2. It’s beautiful
        1. beauty in simplicity
    3. It’s fun
        1. you want to use it and tell others about it
6. **how will I sell the products?**
    - Only sell 1 thing. or else you divide customers attention and risk confusing them.
    - The ad must speak for itself. You can’t sit there and explain the product to the customer.
7. **and addressing concerns that I’m wasting my time?**
    - No one wants to waste time building something that isn’t valuable. So you can either:
        
        (1) get feedback on the idea (no product built)
        
        (2) get feedback on the actual product
        and if you’re gonna do (2), you must move fast. Thats the purpose of shipuary.
        

Every art form has tension before creation. Fuck it.

See ya Feb 1 ✌️


[^1]: is any thought really new? if you look up shipuary, im sure someone has probably already done it before. ill stay ignorant here.

[^2]: is it really passive if it’s always on the back burner? not sure. but i am sure that having ideas “on the back burner” or “back off the mind” is where a lot of the real magic happens.

[^3]: and talk myself out of it (because person/thing/product X is already doing something similar)

[^4]: this feeds into this ongoing process of building my brand. a brand is a promise. i want to promise all three of those things in any work that i do. the promise for the things that come out of shipuary: simple, beautiful products people will want to share.

[^5]: after i posted this, saw the [following tweet](https://x.com/jsngr/status/1876831618003833308); yep
